planner: update the doc of optimizer hint (#17692)
pingcap/docs: optimizer-hints.md

### INL_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])

> **Note:**
>

> > There are multiple reasons that might cause INL_JOIN not to take effect, please see [INL_JOIN does not take effect](#inl_join-hint-does-not-take-effect) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In some cases, the `INL_JOIN` hint might not take effect. For more information, see [`INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect](#inl_join-hint-does-not-take-effect).
```

In this case, you need to place the hint directly after the `SELECT` keyword. For more details, see the [Syntax](#syntax) section.

> ### INL_JOIN hint does not take effect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect
```

> #### INL_JOIN hint does not take effect due to using functions on join tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect when built-in functions are used on columns for joining tables
```

> In some cases, if you use functions on columns of join tables, the optimizer might not be able to choose `IndexJoin` and the `INL_JOIN` can't take effect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, if you use a built-in function on a column that joins tables, the optimizer might fail to choose the `IndexJoin` plan, resulting in the `INL_JOIN` hint not taking effect either.

For example, the following query uses the built-in function `substr` on the column `tname` that joins tables:
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE t1 (id varchar(10) primary key, tname varchar(10));
CREATE TABLE t2 (id varchar(10) primary key, tname varchar(10));

> EXPLAIN SELECT /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id=t2.id and substr(t1.tname,1,2)=substr(t2.tname,1,2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EXPLAIN SELECT /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id=t2.id and SUBSTR(t1.tname,1,2)=SUBSTR(t2.tname,1,2);
```

```

> The execution plan is as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The above case uses function `substr` on the column `tname` of join tables, and its execution plan is as follows:
```

> The above case uses function `substr` on the column `tname` of join tables, and its execution plan is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The execution plan is as follows:
```

```sql

> mysql> explain SELECT /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id=t2.id and substr(t1.tname,1,2)=substr(t2.tname,1,2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| HashJoin_12                  | 12500.00 | root      |               | inner join, equal:[eq(test.t1.id, test.t2.id) eq(Column#5, Column#6)] |
| ├─Projection_17(Build)       | 10000.00 | root      |               | test.t2.id, test.t2.tname, substr(test.t2.tname, 1, 2)->Column#6      |
| │ └─TableReader_19           | 10000.00 | root      |               | data:TableFullScan_18                                                 |
| │   └─TableFullScan_18       | 10000.00 | cop[tikv] | table:t2      | keep order:false, stats:pseudo                                        |
| └─Projection_14(Probe)       | 10000.00 | root      |               | test.t1.id, test.t1.tname, substr(test.t1.tname, 1, 2)->Column#5      |
|   └─TableReader_16           | 10000.00 | root      |               | data:TableFullScan_15                                                 |
|     └─TableFullScan_15       | 10000.00 | cop[tikv] | table:t1      | keep order:false, stats:pseudo                                        |
+------------------------------+----------+-----------+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
7 rows in set, 1 warning (0.01 sec)

> 
> mysql> show warnings;

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

```sql
mysql> show warnings;
```

```
````

+---------+------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Level   | Code | Message                                                                            |
+---------+------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Warning | 1815 | Optimizer Hint /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ or /*+ TIDB_INLJ(t1, t2) */ is inapplicable |
+---------+------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> The root cause is that the optimizer has a limitation that it can't use `Projection` or `Selection` as probe side of `IndexJoin`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see from the preceding example, the `INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect. This is due to a limitation of the optimizer that prevents using the `Projection` or `Selection` operator as the probe side of `IndexJoin`.
```

> In TiDB v8.0.0 or later versions, you can set `tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern` to `ON` to solve this problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, you can avoid this issue by setting [`tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern-new-in-v700) to `ON`.
```

```sql

> mysql> set @@tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern=1;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SET @@tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern=ON;
```

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

> mysql> explain SELECT /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id=t2.id and substr(t1.tname,1,2)=substr(t2.tname,1,2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EXPLAIN SELECT /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id=t2.id AND SUBSTR(t1.tname,1,2)=SUBSTR(t2.tname,1,2);
```

| │   └─TableFullScan_33       | 10000.00     | cop[tikv] | table:t1      | keep order:false, stats:pseudo                                                                                                             |
| └─Projection_14(Probe)       | 100000000.00 | root      |               | test.t2.id, test.t2.tname, substr(test.t2.tname, 1, 2)->Column#6                                                                           |
|   └─TableReader_13           | 10000.00     | root      |               | data:TableRangeScan_12                                                                                                                     |
|     └─TableRangeScan_12      | 10000.00     | cop[tikv] | table:t2      | range: decided by [eq(test.t2.id, test.t1.id)], keep order:false, stats:pseudo                                                             |
+------------------------------+--------------+-----------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
7 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> #### INL_JOIN hint does not take effect due to collation incompatibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect due to collation incompatibility
```

| HashJoin_12                  | 12500.00 | root      |               | inner join, equal:[eq(test.t1.id, test.t2.id) eq(Column#5, Column#6)] |
| ├─Projection_17(Build)       | 10000.00 | root      |               | test.t2.id, test.t2.tname, substr(test.t2.tname, 1, 2)->Column#6      |
| │ └─TableReader_19           | 10000.00 | root      |               | data:TableFullScan_18                                                 |
| │   └─TableFullScan_18       | 10000.00 | cop[tikv] | table:t2      | keep order:false, stats:pseudo                                        |
| └─Projection_14(Probe)       | 10000.00 | root      |               | test.t1.id, test.t1.tname, substr(test.t1.tname, 1, 2)->Column#5      |
|   └─TableReader_16           | 10000.00 | root      |               | data:TableFullScan_15                                                 |
|     └─TableFullScan_15       | 10000.00 | cop[tikv] | table:t1      | keep order:false, stats:pseudo                                        |
+------------------------------+----------+-----------+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
7 rows in set, 1 warning (0.01 sec)
```

```sql

> mysql> show warnings;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SHOW WARNINGS;
```

```

```
+---------+------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Level   | Code | Message                                                                            |
+---------+------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Warning | 1815 | Optimizer Hint /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ or /*+ TIDB_INLJ(t1, t2) */ is inapplicable |
+---------+------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

As you can see from the preceding example, the `INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect. This is due to a limitation of the optimizer that prevents using the `Projection` or `Selection` operator as the probe side of `IndexJoin`.

> Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, you can avoid this issue by setting [`tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern-new-in-v700) to `ON`.

Reviewer 2: 该参数是从 7.0.0 开始引入，所以第一句话是否应该改成 Starting from TiDB v7.0.0

Reviewer: Yes, this variable was introduced in v7.0 but this issue can be solved by this variable starting from v8.0 because of new enhancements in v8.0.

1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> #### `INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect because of join order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `INL_JOIN` hint does not take effect due to join order
```
